# Hotel-Revenue
Develop a dashboard using Power BI to visualize hotel booking data and to explore seasonality
# About the project 
This project is about building a visual data story using power BI to present to stakeholders. Through this process, I will be building a database, analyzing and retrieving data with SQL, connecting power BI to a database, visualizing data in Power BI, then answering questions presented by stakeholders.

1. Building a database: Initially I downloaded the data from excel workbook that logs hotel data of City Hotel and Resort hotel from 2018, 2019, 2020, and the market segment. Then I created a database in Mircosoft SQL server management studio and imported the excel table.

2. Analyzing and Retrieving Data with Mircosoft SQL server:  Once database is created, I created a new query and started to explore the data using SQL SELECT * FROM function. From there I used the UNION function to combined all the tables from 2018-2020 into one unified dataset and named it a new dataset called 'hotels'. To see if the hotel revenue is growing by year, I first created a new column named 'revenue' that sum((stays_in_week_nights + stays_in_weekend_nights) * adr {adr is the average daily rate}. Next I included in the SQL function SELECT arrival_date_year and used GROUP BY arrival_date_year to see the change of revenge each year. The total revenue in 2018 was about $4.5M, in 2019 it was about $20.4M, and in 2020 it was about $14.24M. Since stakeholders wanted to see the revenue broken down by hotel types, I used the SELECT arrival_date_year and hotel which was GROUP BY arrival_date_year and hotel. Now running this query it is shown that in this segment, revenue for City Hotel in 2018, 2019, and 2020 was $1.5M, $10.1M, and $8.4M respectfully. Revenue for Resort Hotel in 2018, 2019, and 2020 was $3.4M, $9.2M, and #6.8M respecfully. Next I combined the market_segment table to the market segment column in the 'hotels' table using the LEFT JOIN function. I also combined the meal_cost table to the meal cost column in the 'hotels' table using the LEFT JOIN function.

3. Connecting Power BI to a Database: I retrieved the hotel data from SQL by opening Power BI and importing the data from the SQL server. To begin answering stakholder questions about revenue, I had to factor in the discounts given to clients. Calculating revenue was achieved by creating a new column called 'Revenue' that added stays_in_week_nights and stays_in_weekend_nights then multiplied by average daily rate then mutilpied by discount. 

4. Visualizing Data in Power BI: I closed and applied the table in Power BI to start the visualization of data. First I designed three sections for my visualizations. The first section breaks down the total revenue ($29.85M), average ADR ($104.47), total nights that were spent (367.78K), average discount (25.8%), and the number of car spaces (8.69K) with respective trendlines. The second section displays reveune trends by reservation dates for City Hotel and Resort Hotel.Lastly the third section consist of a pie chart that discloses the revenue percentages for City Hotel and Resort Hotel. And a table for revenue by year, number of parking spaces, and the percent of parking space used. Lastly, I designed a filter by country, date, hotel type, and time.

5. Summarized findings: "Is our hotel revenue growing by year"? Yes, the hotel revenue is growing, in which the Resort Hotel leading in $18.M and City Hotel $11.29M."Should we increase our parking lot size"? With the stagant trend with guest and personal cars over the years, there is no outstanding evidence that proves to increase the parking lot size. "What trends an we see in the data"? Over the three years there has been a positive correlation and trend for average ADR, total nights spents, and car spaces. The average discount has aslso increased during the time. 

   
# Download Data
To download data, copy this repo using git clone https://github.com/Gabrielle-Robinson/Hotel-Revenue-, open the file 'hotel_revenue_historical_full.xlsx', click 'View Raw' and open downloaded file.
# How to Access  
Open file 'Hotel Revenue Dashboard.pbix', click 'View Raw', and open downloaded file.
